{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1671\cocoasubrtf600
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica-Bold;\f1\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;\f2\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica-Oblique;
\f3\fswiss\fcharset0 ArialMT;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;\red52\green52\blue52;\red251\green251\blue251;
\red12\green95\blue134;\red255\green255\blue255;\red77\green77\blue77;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;\cssrgb\c26667\c26667\c26667;\cssrgb\c98824\c98824\c98824;
\cssrgb\c0\c45098\c59608;\cssrgb\c100000\c100000\c100000;\csgray\c37475;}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww12240\viewh14560\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs26 \cf2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
A. LICENS INFORMATION\

\f1\b0 \
msNMF\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb4 Copyright Notice (2021)\
Sofie Rahbek, Technical University of Denmark (DTU) \
Contact information: sorah@dtu.dk or lghan@dtu.dk 
\fs28 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\fs22 \cf2 \cb1 Article 1 - Definitions\
\
1. The "Software" constitutes any software distributed as part of or pertaining\
to the msNMF as made available online at \cf2 \ul \ulc2 https://github.com/sofierahbek/msNMF\cf2 \ulnone .
\fs28 \cf2 \cb4 \
\

\fs22 \cf2 \cb1 Article 2 - License (MIT)\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\fs28 \cf2 \cb4 \

\fs22 Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:\cb1 \
\cb4 The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in all copies or substantial portions of the Software.
\fs28 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\fs26 \cf2 \cb4 THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
\fs28 \cb1 \
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf2 B. CODE INFORMATION 
\f1\b0 \
The Matlab code contains the main function for running the msNMF (msNMF.m) and a single subfunction (myvec2mat.m).  Details and explanatory text is included in the msNMF.m file. \
Information can also be found in the associated JMR paper: \'93
\f2\i Data-driven separation of MRI signal components for tissue characterization
\f1\i0 \'94 (
\f3 \cf5 \cb6 \ul \ulc5 https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jmr.2021.107103)
\f1 \cf2 \cb1 \ulnone  \
\
A simple demonstration including only 3 inputs: \
\
\cf7 X: The data matrix - e.g. [N_voxels x N_datapoints].\
k: The number of components (i.e. the rank of the decomposition)\
xvalues: sample values, e.g. vector of b-values or echo times. \
\
[W,H] = msNMF(X,k,xvalues) \cf2 \
\
Running the msNMF like this will use default settings. All k components will be monotonously decaying with a monotonously increasing slope, as appropriate for approximately exponential decaying functions. H will be initialised with random numbers between 0 and 1. \
If the data is normalised to start in intensity 1, the decaying signal components in W will be forced to start in 1. \
\
\
\
\
\
\
}